Add lesson13 (#12)
ReDI-School/js-berlin-2021-fall: lesson13.md

HTML:
```html
<input id="myInput">
```

JS:
```js
let myInputElement = document.getElementById("myInput");
```

What JavaScript code do I need to write to change the input element to:

```html
<input id="myInput" type="number">

---

HTML:
```html
<input id="myInput" type="number">
```

JS:
```js
let myInputElement = document.getElementById("myInput");
myInputElement.type = "number";
```

---

HTML:
```html
<input id="myInput" type="number" min=0 max=99 placeholder="Amount">
```

JS:
```js
let myInputElement = document.getElementById("myInput");
myInputElement.type = "number";
myInputElement.min = 0;
myInputElement.max = 99;
myInputElement.placeholder = "Amount";
```

---

HTML

```html
<button id="myButton" onclick="myFunction()">Click me!</button>
```

How can we set the `onclick` property from JavaScript?

```js
let myButtonElement = document.getElementById("myButton");
// ???
```

---

### Variables pointing to functions

So far, we learned that variables can point to values:

```js
let age = 42;
let name = "Otto";
let isHappy = true;
let address = { street: "Ottostr.", city: "Berlin" }
```

---

### Functions can be values, too

Variables can also point to functions:

```js

> let myFunction = function() { console.log("this function was called"); };

Reviewer: I guess we have to explain anonymous functions here, maybe worth having it written on this slide.

// myFunction is a variable pointing to our function
myFunction(); // calls the function above
```

---

HTML

```html
<button id="myButton" onclick="myFunction()">Click me!</button>
```

How can we set the `onclick` property from JavaScript?

```js
let myButtonElement = document.getElementById("myButton");
myButtonElement.onclick = function() { console.log("My button was clicked"); }
```

---

So far, we can get elements from HTML and manipulate them.

* We can set and get properties
* properties can be numbers, strings, booleans, object, functions...
* But what if we want to create a new element that's not in HTML yet?

---

### Document.CreateElement

```js
let myDiv = document.createElement("div"); // 1
myDiv.textContent = "hello";               // 2
document.body.appendChild(myDiv);          // 3

> ```

Reviewer: Maybe have something like, "This is equivalent to the html `<div>hello</div>`"

1. Create a new HTML element using `document.createElement`. Pass the type of the element (`div`, `button`, `img`, ...) as string.
2. Set all the properties you like, e.g. `textContent`, `onclick`, ...

> 3. Tell the browser in which parent element you want the new element to appear. Here, we append it to the document's `<body>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. appendChild add an element to the end of the list of children of a specific parent element. Here, we append it to the document's `<body>`.
```
